docs/index.rst, before:

.. _sec_python_101:

==========
Python 101
==========

.. epigraph::

    "For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing
    them."

    ---Aristotle (around 350 BCE)

Welcome to the Python tutorial of the group "Micromechanical Materials
Modelling" of the "Institute of Mechanics and Fluid Dynamics". The goal of this
tutorial is to introduce the basic tools used in our everyday scientific
worklife by actually performing such tasks. We will start with a brief
introduction to the *Unix Shell* in which we list the most common commands and
what they do.

.. rubric:: Contents

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Setup

    setup/installing_python
    setup/setting_up_python_101

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Shell

    shell/shell

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Python

    python/basics
    python/comments
    python/containers
    python/flow_control
    python/functions
    python/strings
    python/file_io
    python/classes

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: NumPy

    numpy/introduction
    numpy/array
    numpy/math

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Matplotlib

    matplotlib/introduction
    matplotlib/line_plots
    matplotlib/scatter_plots
    matplotlib/pcolormesh_plots
    matplotlib/contour_plots
    matplotlib/contourf_plots

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: SciPy

    scipy/introduction
    scipy/fitting_curves

Commit message:

Refactor tools and add custom css

docs/index.rst, after:

.. _sec_python_101:

==========
Python 101
==========

.. epigraph::

    "For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing
    them."

    ---Aristotle (around 350 BCE)

Welcome to the Python tutorial of the group "Micromechanical Materials
Modelling" of the "Institute of Mechanics and Fluid Dynamics". The goal of this
tutorial is to introduce the basic tools used in our everyday scientific
worklife by actually performing such tasks. We will start with a brief
introduction to the *Unix Shell* in which we list the most common commands and
what they do.

.. rubric:: Contents

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Setup

    setup/installing_python
    setup/setting_up_python_101

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Tools

    tools/the_right_tool_for_the_job
    tools/shell
    tools/text_editors
    tools/version_control_systems

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Python

    python/basics
    python/comments
    python/containers
    python/flow_control
    python/functions
    python/strings
    python/file_io
    python/classes

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: NumPy

    numpy/introduction
    numpy/array
    numpy/math

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Matplotlib

    matplotlib/introduction
    matplotlib/line_plots
    matplotlib/scatter_plots
    matplotlib/pcolormesh_plots
    matplotlib/contour_plots
    matplotlib/contourf_plots

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: SciPy

    scipy/introduction
    scipy/fitting_curves
